okay so here's the thing we already know
that these two watches the Apple Watch
series 9 and the new Ultra 2 are not for
people who already have any somewhat
recent Apple watch these are iterative
updates for people who don't have any
Apple watch yet or have like a really
really really really old Apple watch
like a series three or something like
that so you would really have to squint
and and put it side by side with the
previous version to actually notice
what's different about it versus the
previous gen but on top of that some of
the stuff that's actually genuinely new
with these watches isn't even shipping
right away it's coming later this year
well later this year you'll see what I
mean so I'll make this review really
simple for you guys here it's just a
spec bump the Apple Watch series 9 is a
spec bump over the series 8 and the new
Ultra 2 is the same spec bump over the
original Ultra basically there's one new
color this pink on the series nine that
I have and it's pretty similar to the
new pink iPhone it's this kind of light
salmony colored one aside from that
honestly you could never even tell if
someone is wearing a new watch matter of
fact I've been wearing around this new
Ultra 2 for more than a week now
nobody's asked about it nobody can tell
because it looks exactly the same there
were some rumors floating around of
heavily speculating on a black Apple
Watch 2 you might have seen these also
and this seemed like something everybody
agreed was probably going to happen and
it made a lot of sense because there's
always something Apple does just to
visually distinguish the new one from
the not so new one but what I think
happened was Apple got to testing it and
then they started to realize just what
happens to a coated Titanium on a
durable focused item like a watch so
kind of similar to the new iPhone
there's these new colors with PVD
coating on top of titanium for the
iPhone 15 Pro but it's a phone so people
put it in a case and they're a little
bit more careful with it but on an
adventure watch where you expect people
to run around outside and beat it up and
scrape it and drag it through rocks and
sand and stuff I think they realized
that might have a tough time wearing
well so we just didn't get it just looks
exactly the same so either way okay what
is the new spec bump uh it's the S9 the
new S9 chip inside this phone or the
system in package the Sip as they call
it literally everything that's new about
these watches stems from this S9 so
first of all it's a faster chip which
just means generally flying around the
UI and opening and closing apps and
notifications and stuff like that all is
technically faster honestly not super
noticeable just because you really don't
do a ton of that on the watch and the
refresh rate is exactly the same but you
know what I'll still take it but then
it's also a more power efficient chip
which you'll always love to see in a
small battery Gadget like a watch but
Apple actually targets the same 18 hour
battery life that they always do and
instead cranks the maximum brightness of
the new series 9 display up to 2 000
nits thanks to new display driver
silicon and on the ultra 2 that now goes
from 2000 up to 3 000 nits Max
brightness so unsurprisingly they look
great outdoors you don't necessarily
look at it right away and notice it's
brighter it's really only when you put
it side by side with the last one that
you can at least appreciate how
impressive this is 3000 nits is actually
the brightest display Apple has ever put
in any Gadget they've ever made the S9
package also includes a new Ultra wide
band chip that enables Precision finding
of your iPhone so basically find my
iPhone before on the watch was just
pinging a sound to play from your iPhone
but now with the watch you can have it
direct you to find exactly where your
phone is kind of like finding an air tag
even more useful if your phone is like
in between some couch cushions or
something or if it's playing sound
echoing in a weird way I think this is a
great ecosystem feature I'm sure a lot
of people will love it and the S9
package also has twice as much memory
built in now and a double the speed
neural engine which combined is able to
give you faster serial quests and it's
able to process all the serial requests
on device without any connection to the
Internet so Siri's kind of famous at
this point for occasion really just
grinding to a halt and not answering
questions or just taking forever because
you have a terrible internet connection
so this actually does make a big
difference basically asking it normal
questions is pretty consistently quick
the on-device Transformer model is also
a bit more accurate the Apple wasn't
actually specific about which Siri
requests are happening completely on
device but if we just use our our
inferencing here
what I understand is happening is
basically all the voice processing is
happening on device from the S9 and then
anything that actually needs to go to
the internet to look something up that's
when it goes and does the round trip so
something like set a timer is always
going to be nice and quick no matter
what your internet connection is because
that's all on device but if you ask it
like how tall is the Empire State
Building that'll process your voice
quickly but then it still needs a decent
internet connection to do the rest of it
fast it's also supposed to be able to
access your health data and be able to
submit Health Data from just your voice
because it's all on device and local and
secure but that's one of the few things
that's supposed to be later this year
later this year so as of right now when
I try the things that were in the
keynote I just get non-responses and
errors but then the one big feature the
one genuinely interesting new thing that
stands out to me in this generation of
watches as actually Innovative is double
tap this double tap feature is like the
perfect Symphony of impressive
processing power and clever computation
and high quality sensors all combined to
give you something genuinely new that
honestly I don't actually expect other
smart watches to be able to copy at
least anytime soon so it's just this
it's just double tapping your thumb and
your pointer finger on the same side
that you're wearing your watch to select
things on the watch
later this year so Apple actually had to
ship me a separate watch running I guess
an early copy of watch OS 10.1 all the
new watches shipping right now I have
10.0 but the feature itself is simple
you raised to wake and then you double
tap your fingers together to control
what's happening on the screen of the
watch this is basically most useful in
instances where your other hand is full
maybe you're carrying something or
you're walking a dog or you're cooking
and your hand is dirty something like
that whatever but when you actually do
it it's basically set up to either
select the primary button in whatever
app you're in or Advance through the
stack of widgets in a series smart stack
so basically if you're receiving an
incoming call no matter what when you
double tap it will accept the call it's
the primary button and then when you're
in the call another double tap that hits
the end call Button because now that's
the primary button that's also strangely
satisfying in the past for me I know if
one hand is busy it's been like a nose
tap I know I'm not the only one who's
done that so you can't judge me but I'm
I'm welcoming of this sort of solution
to that problem and honestly it's been
very accurate very few false triggers I
know that I kind of have to give it a
second once I race to wake and then
double tap but it's
it's consistent it's very good now the
whole butt actually thing about this not
being new here is there was an
accessibility setting called Assistive
Touch added I think all the way back
with the Apple Watch series 6 which was
designed for people who don't have
another hand to use their Apple watch so
they have to be able to control it with
just their one hand and so it had double
pinch it had single pinch it had
clenching your fist and double clenching
your fist for my limited experience
because I turned it on and tried it on
other watches it works pretty well when
you're very deliberate about it but the
official reason why this double tap is
new and therefore only available on
these newest generations of watches and
not the older ones
is the most Apple thing ever okay ready
basically the algorithm that is doing
all of the processing from all the data
from the sensors which is the same
sensors on the old watches is so much
more complicated and so much heavier now
that it couldn't possibly run on an S8
or an older piece of silicon just the S9
yeah
convenient so this is coming this is a
in a month thing this is according to
the keynote they're usually pretty good
about delivering on promises like that
but as of right now this is not shipping
with the watch either way this is this
is something both useful and clearly
foreshadowing to the upcoming Apple
Vision Pro whose primary gesture will be
selecting things by putting your thumb
and index finger together honestly it's
one of the most fascinating things about
this watch but the other fascinating
thing is that paired with one of these
sport bands the Apple watch is Apple's
first fully carbon neutral product
like full carbon neutral that that might
be the most impressive thing about this
entire watch that includes all the
materials energy and Emissions used to
create it
assemble it package it ship it to your
door and it accounts for all the energy
that it actually takes to run the device
for the lifetime of you owning it
that is absurd that is extremely
impressive I'm kind of taking their word
for it on their face I do want to dig
more into this later but it's also
something that I hope other companies
start to copy so here's the thing you
know that thing Apple's done in other
product categories where they'll have a
big silicon upgrade in the same old
design as before and then the next
Generation they'll actually update the
design of the product they've done this
with the MacBook Air MacBook Pro other
stuff
I'm thinking and I'm hoping that to line
up with rumors that that's exactly
what's happening with the Apple watch
this is what we've been wanting for a
while
look back at it this watch looks
basically exactly the same as last year
and that one looked just like the year
before which looked just like the year
before that and the year before that
same shape same buttons same
fundamentals and I get that if it ain't
broke don't fix it that's pretty classic
but there's been so many things that
we've kind of just been waiting for
slash hoping for to maybe see from an
Apple Watch someday something like maybe
a circular redesign maybe a little more
classical shape maybe a rotating bezel
like we've seen on the Galaxy watch
which is sick maybe an actual Leap
Forward in battery life like literally
any one of those features would be the
biggest update to the Apple watch in
years
but this ain't it it's just a it's a
spec bump
now you know thanks for watching
catch you guys in the next one
peace
[Music]
24 7.